README.md, before:

# Next.js Toolbox Template

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) v12 project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app). It is a reference on how to integrate commonly used features within Netlify for Next.js. 

[![Deploy to Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/img/deploy/button.svg)](https://app.netlify.com/start/deploy?repository=https://github.com/netlify-templates/next-netlify-starter&utm_source=github&utm_medium=nextstarter-cs&utm_campaign=devex-cs)

(If you click this button, it will create a new repo for you that looks exactly like this one, and sets that repo up immediately for deployment on Netlify)

## Getting Started

After installing the dependencies with `npm install` or `yarn install`, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `pages/index.js`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

### Installation options

**Option one:** One-click deploy

[![Deploy to Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/img/deploy/button.svg)](https://app.netlify.com/start/deploy?repository=https://github.com/netlify-templates/next-netlify-starter&utm_source=github&utm_medium=nextstarter-cs&utm_campaign=devex-cs)

**Option two:** Manual clone

1. Clone this repo: `git clone https://github.com/netlify-templates/next-netlify-starter.git`
2. Navigate to the directory and run `npm install`
3. Run `npm run dev`
4. Make your changes
5. Connect to [Netlify](https://url.netlify.com/Bk4UicocL) manually (the `netlify.toml` file is the one you'll need to make sure stays intact to make sure the export is done and pointed to the right stuff)

## Forms

Netlify Forms are a way to wire up your native HTML into being able to seamlessly handle submissions. To get a form working, we need to add two extra things:

1. An extra attribute on the `form` tag, `netlify`

Adding this attribute to our `form` tag will let Netlify know when it loads the page, that it needs to be aware of submissions made through it.

2. A hidden input in the form, `<input type="hidden" name="form-name" value="feedback" />`

Adding this extra input allows our form to be given a name that Netlify can store submissions to. It is a hidden input so your users won't see it but it will pass along the name of our form to Netlify when we submit. In our Netlify Admins site under Forms, we will see our Active Form named `feedback` and all submissions will go there.

With both of those we're ready for folks to give us feedback!

### Adding a custom submission page

While Netlify provides a default submission page for folks, we can customize it as well! With the `action` attribute on the `form` tag we will be able to direct our users to our own page.

In [`components/FeedbackForm.js`](./components/FeedbackForm.js) you'll see the form has the attribute `action="/thanks"` this will take our user to the custom route `/thanks` which we created under [`pages/thanks.js`](./pages/thanks.js). As long as the page exists, you can direct folks to it!

### Blocking bot spam with a honeypot field

Many bots scan through webpages and try to see what pages and forms they can get access to. Instead of letting our website receive spam submissions, we can filter out unrelated submissions with a visually-hidden input field.

```html
<p class="hidden">
  <label>
    Don’t fill this out if you’re human: <input name="bot-field" />
  </label>
</p>
```

Since screenreader users will still have this announced, it is important for us to
communicate that this is a field not meant to be filled in.

For this to work we also need to add a `netlify-honeypot` attribute to the form element.

```html
<form netlify netlify-honeypot action="/feedback" method="post"></form>
```

[See it here in the template code.](https://github.com/netlify-templates/next-toolbox/blob/main/components/FeedbackForm.js#L8)

### Forms Resources

- [Netlify Forms Setup](https://docs.netlify.com/forms/setup/)
- [Netlify Forms](https://www.netlify.com/products/forms/#main)
- [Netlify Forms - Form Triggered Functions](https://docs.netlify.com/functions/trigger-on-events/)
- [Netlify Forms - Using reCAPTCHA 2](https://docs.netlify.com/forms/spam-filters/#recaptcha-2-challenge)

## Netlify Functions

With Netlify, you can build out server-side code without having to setup and maintain a dedicated server. Inside of our default folder path, [`netlify/functions`](./netlify/functions) you can see an example of the format for JavaScript functions with the [`joke.js`](./netlify/functions/joke.js) file.

The function format expects a function named `handler` to be exported. This will be the function that will be invoked whenever a client makes a request to the generated endpoints. The endpoint's format is followed as `/.netlify/functions/joke`. So whenever the site is deployed, if you go to `https://<site base url>/.netlify/functions/joke` you will see a random joke!

> Side note: In our example, we're using `import` to include data from another location and `export const const handler` to let our function be consumed by Netlify. We're able to do this because of [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io). This is a bundler configuration we set in our `netlify.toml` under `[functions]`.

### Functions Resources

There is quite a bit you can do with these functions, so here are some additional resources to learn more!

- [Netlify Function Format](https://docs.netlify.com/functions/build-with-javascript/#synchronous-function-format)
- [Build Netlify Functions with TypeScript](https://docs.netlify.com/functions/build-with-typescript/)
- [Event-triggered Functions](https://docs.netlify.com/functions/trigger-on-events/)
- [What are Background Functions](https://www.netlify.com/blog/2021/01/07/what-are-background-functions/)
- [Netlify Functions - Examples](https://functions.netlify.com/examples/)
- [Using esbuild as your bundler for new ECMAScript Features](https://www.netlify.com/blog/2021/04/02/modern-faster-netlify-functions/)

## Redirects

In the [`netlify.toml`](./netlify.toml) configuration file there is an example of how to implement redirects. Redirects can be used to do many things from redirecting Single Page Apps more predictably, redirecting based on country/language to leveraging On-Demand Builders for [Distributed Persistant Rendering](https://www.netlify.com/blog/2021/04/14/distributed-persistent-rendering-a-new-jamstack-approach-for-faster-builds/). 

In the example we'll be using redirects to have a shorter endpoint to Netlify functions. By default, you call a Netlify function when requesting a path like `https://yoursite.netlify.com/.netlify/functions/functionName`. Instead, we'll redirect all calls from a path including `/api` to call on the Netlify functions. So the path will be `https://yoursite.netlify.com/api/functionName`, a lot easier to remember too. 


### Example
```toml
[[redirects]]
from = "/api/*"
to = "/.netlify/functions/:splat"
status = 200
force = true
```

First we create a section in the `.toml` for the redirect using `[[redirects]]`. Each redirect should have this line to start the redirect code, and the redirects will be executed in the order they appear in the `.toml` from top to bottom.

The bare minimum needed is the `from` and `to`, letting the [CDN](https://www.netlify.com/blog/edge-cdn-serverless-cloud-meaaning) know when a route is requested, the `from`, forward it on to another path, the `to`. In the example, we also added an 'Ok' status code, 200, and set the `force` to true to make sure it _always_ redirects from the `from` path.

There are many ways to use redirects. Check out the resouces below to learn more.

### Redirect Resources

- [Redirect syntax and configuration](https://docs.netlify.com/routing/redirects/#syntax-for-the-netlify-configuration-file)
- [Redirect options](https://docs.netlify.com/routing/redirects/redirect-options/)
- [Creating better, more predicatable redirect rules for SPAs](https://www.netlify.com/blog/2020/04/07/creating-better-more-predictable-redirect-rules-for-spas/)
- [Redirect by country or language](https://docs.netlify.com/routing/redirects/redirect-options/#redirect-by-country-or-language)
- [On-Demand Builders](https://docs.netlify.com/configure-builds/on-demand-builders/)

Commit message:

chore: Modify documentation to match discoveries with data-*

README.md, after:

# Next.js Toolbox Template

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) v12 project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app). It is a reference on how to integrate commonly used features within Netlify for Next.js. 

[![Deploy to Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/img/deploy/button.svg)](https://app.netlify.com/start/deploy?repository=https://github.com/netlify-templates/next-netlify-starter&utm_source=github&utm_medium=nextstarter-cs&utm_campaign=devex-cs)

(If you click this button, it will create a new repo for you that looks exactly like this one, and sets that repo up immediately for deployment on Netlify)

## Getting Started

After installing the dependencies with `npm install` or `yarn install`, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `pages/index.js`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

### Installation options

**Option one:** One-click deploy

[![Deploy to Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/img/deploy/button.svg)](https://app.netlify.com/start/deploy?repository=https://github.com/netlify-templates/next-netlify-starter&utm_source=github&utm_medium=nextstarter-cs&utm_campaign=devex-cs)

**Option two:** Manual clone

1. Clone this repo: `git clone https://github.com/netlify-templates/next-netlify-starter.git`
2. Navigate to the directory and run `npm install`
3. Run `npm run dev`
4. Make your changes
5. Connect to [Netlify](https://url.netlify.com/Bk4UicocL) manually (the `netlify.toml` file is the one you'll need to make sure stays intact to make sure the export is done and pointed to the right stuff)

## Forms

Netlify Forms are a way to wire up your native HTML into being able to seamlessly handle submissions. To get a form working, we need to add two extra things:

1. An extra attribute on the `form` tag, `data-netlify="true"`

Adding this attribute to our `form` tag will let Netlify know when it loads the page, that it needs to be aware of submissions made through it.

2. A hidden input in the form, `<input type="hidden" name="form-name" value="feedback" />`

Adding this extra input allows our form to be given a name that Netlify can store submissions to. It is a hidden input so your users won't see it but it will pass along the name of our form to Netlify when we submit. In our Netlify Admins site under Forms, we will see our Active Form named `feedback` and all submissions will go there.

With both of those we're ready for folks to give us feedback!

### Adding a custom submission page

While Netlify provides a default submission page for folks, we can customize it as well! With the `action` attribute on the `form` tag we will be able to direct our users to our own page.

In [`components/FeedbackForm.js`](./components/FeedbackForm.js) you'll see the form has the attribute `action="/success"` this will take our user to the custom route `/success` which we created under [`pages/success.js`](./pages/success.js). As long as the page exists, you can direct folks to it!

### Blocking bot spam with a honeypot field

Many bots scan through webpages and try to see what pages and forms they can get access to. Instead of letting our website receive spam submissions, we can filter out unrelated submissions with a visually-hidden input field.

```html
<p class="hidden">
  <label>
    Don’t fill this out if you’re human: <input name="bot-field" />
  </label>
</p>
```

Since screenreader users will still have this announced, it is important for us to
communicate that this is a field not meant to be filled in.

For this to work we also need to add a `data-netlify-honeypot` attribute to the form element.

```html
<form data-netlify="true" data-netlify-honeypot="bot-field" action="/success" method="POST"></form>
```

[See it here in the template code.](https://github.com/netlify-templates/next-toolbox/blob/main/components/FeedbackForm.js#L8)

### Forms Resources

- [Netlify Forms Setup](https://docs.netlify.com/forms/setup/)
- [Netlify Forms](https://www.netlify.com/products/forms/#main)
- [Netlify Forms - Form Triggered Functions](https://docs.netlify.com/functions/trigger-on-events/)
- [Netlify Forms - Using reCAPTCHA 2](https://docs.netlify.com/forms/spam-filters/#recaptcha-2-challenge)

## Netlify Functions

With Netlify, you can build out server-side code without having to setup and maintain a dedicated server. Inside of our default folder path, [`netlify/functions`](./netlify/functions) you can see an example of the format for JavaScript functions with the [`joke.js`](./netlify/functions/joke.js) file.

The function format expects a function named `handler` to be exported. This will be the function that will be invoked whenever a client makes a request to the generated endpoints. The endpoint's format is followed as `/.netlify/functions/joke`. So whenever the site is deployed, if you go to `https://<site base url>/.netlify/functions/joke` you will see a random joke!

> Side note: In our example, we're using `import` to include data from another location and `export const const handler` to let our function be consumed by Netlify. We're able to do this because of [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io). This is a bundler configuration we set in our `netlify.toml` under `[functions]`.

### Functions Resources

There is quite a bit you can do with these functions, so here are some additional resources to learn more!

- [Netlify Function Format](https://docs.netlify.com/functions/build-with-javascript/#synchronous-function-format)
- [Build Netlify Functions with TypeScript](https://docs.netlify.com/functions/build-with-typescript/)
- [Event-triggered Functions](https://docs.netlify.com/functions/trigger-on-events/)
- [What are Background Functions](https://www.netlify.com/blog/2021/01/07/what-are-background-functions/)
- [Netlify Functions - Examples](https://functions.netlify.com/examples/)
- [Using esbuild as your bundler for new ECMAScript Features](https://www.netlify.com/blog/2021/04/02/modern-faster-netlify-functions/)

## Redirects

In the [`netlify.toml`](./netlify.toml) configuration file there is an example of how to implement redirects. Redirects can be used to do many things from redirecting Single Page Apps more predictably, redirecting based on country/language to leveraging On-Demand Builders for [Distributed Persistant Rendering](https://www.netlify.com/blog/2021/04/14/distributed-persistent-rendering-a-new-jamstack-approach-for-faster-builds/). 

In the example we'll be using redirects to have a shorter endpoint to Netlify functions. By default, you call a Netlify function when requesting a path like `https://yoursite.netlify.com/.netlify/functions/functionName`. Instead, we'll redirect all calls from a path including `/api` to call on the Netlify functions. So the path will be `https://yoursite.netlify.com/api/functionName`, a lot easier to remember too. 


### Example
```toml
[[redirects]]
from = "/api/*"
to = "/.netlify/functions/:splat"
status = 200
force = true
```

First we create a section in the `.toml` for the redirect using `[[redirects]]`. Each redirect should have this line to start the redirect code, and the redirects will be executed in the order they appear in the `.toml` from top to bottom.

The bare minimum needed is the `from` and `to`, letting the [CDN](https://www.netlify.com/blog/edge-cdn-serverless-cloud-meaaning) know when a route is requested, the `from`, forward it on to another path, the `to`. In the example, we also added an 'Ok' status code, 200, and set the `force` to true to make sure it _always_ redirects from the `from` path.

There are many ways to use redirects. Check out the resouces below to learn more.

### Redirect Resources

- [Redirect syntax and configuration](https://docs.netlify.com/routing/redirects/#syntax-for-the-netlify-configuration-file)
- [Redirect options](https://docs.netlify.com/routing/redirects/redirect-options/)
- [Creating better, more predicatable redirect rules for SPAs](https://www.netlify.com/blog/2020/04/07/creating-better-more-predictable-redirect-rules-for-spas/)
- [Redirect by country or language](https://docs.netlify.com/routing/redirects/redirect-options/#redirect-by-country-or-language)
- [On-Demand Builders](https://docs.netlify.com/configure-builds/on-demand-builders/)
